# ns8-webtop

NS8 WebTop module, a collaboration suite of services accessible via web for emails, calendars, contacts, documents.

Official website: http://www.sonicle.com/webtop

## Module overview

```mermaid
flowchart LR
    subgraph Webtop[Webtop module]
        Apache -.-|PHP-FPM|z-push--->|calendars/contacts API| Webapp
        Apache -.-|PHP-FPM|WebDav--->|calendars/contacts API| Webapp
        Apache --->|Reverse proxy| Webapp
        Webapp ---> postgres[(postgresql)]
    end
    subgraph Mail module
        Webapp ----> SMTP
        Webapp ----> IMAP
        z-push ----> IMAP
    end
    subgraph Users Domains
        Webapp ---> OpenLDAP
    end
    Req>Requests] --> Apache
```

## Install

Instantiate the module with:

    add-module ghcr.io/nethserver/webtop:latest 1

The output of the command will return the instance name.
Output example:

    {"module_id": "webtop1", "image_name": "webtop", "image_url": "ghcr.io/nethserver/webtop:latest"}

## Custom Configuration

### `webtop.properties`

The `webtop.properties` configuration file for WebTop is generated by
expanding a text file template and is mounted by the `webapp` container.
The template consists of file fragments located under
`templates/webtop.properties.d/`. These fragments are concatenated and
written to the resulting file in alphabetical order according to their
directory names.

During the template expansion, placeholders for environment variables are
replaced.

To override an existing template fragment, follow this procedure:

    runagent -m webtop1
    # working directory switches to webtop1's state/ dir
    mkdir -p webtop.properties.d
    cp ../templates/webtop.properties.d/10builtin webtop.properties.d/10builtin
    vi webtop.properties.d/10builtin
    systemctl --user restart webtop

This procedure creates a directory for override fragments under the
module's `state/` directory and copies the original fragment into it. You
can then edit the copied fragment. Finally, restart the entire `webtop`
pod to apply the changes.

With similar commands, you can add custom fragments. Be careful not to
modify the contents of the `./templates` directory directly, as they will
be overwritten during the next application update. Files under
`./state/webtop.properties.d/` are retained and are also added to backup.

## Uninstall

To uninstall the instance:

    remove-module --no-preserve webtop1

## Testing

Test the module using the `test-module.sh` script:


    ./test-module.sh <NODE_ADDR> ghcr.io/nethserver/webtop:latest

The tests are made using [Robot Framework](https://robotframework.org/)

## UI translation

Translated with [Weblate](https://hosted.weblate.org/projects/ns8/).

To setup the translation process:

- add [GitHub Weblate app](https://docs.weblate.org/en/latest/admin/continuous.html#github-setup) to your repository
- add your repository to [hosted.weblate.org](https://hosted.weblate.org) or ask a NethServer developer to add it to ns8 Weblate project
